# Yang Zhang class project
  Trypanosomatids is a group of unicellular eukaryotes. Trypanosoma brucei belongs to this group, and could cause devastating diseases, such as African sleep sickness, affecting millions of people worldwide. Currently, no effective medication or vaccines is available. Development of therapeutic strategies rely on a better understating of its biology. T. brucei has a complex life cycle alternating between insect and human hosts, existing as procyclic form and blood-stream form, respectively. The transition between these the two forms involves drastic changes in gene expression. However, how gene expression is regulated at transcriptional level in T. brucei is not known, as DNA sequences for promoter and transcription termination are not well-defined. Moreover, RNAPII-associated transcription factors are not known in T. brucei. Epigenetic marker, base J, has been shown to play an important role in transcription termination. Loss of base J leads to transcription readthrough defects, allowing de-repression of genes downstream of transcription termination sites. This constitute a novel mechanism for base J-mediated regulation on gene expression. 
Work in Sabatini lab identified a base J-associated protein complex, PJW/PP1, complex. We knocked down one of the components in the PJW/PP1 complex, and we observed transcription termination defects by RNA-seq, indicating that the PJW/PP1 complex is involved in transcription termination. Previous work similarly characterized the transcription termination defects caused by base J through RNA-seq. 
  With these data in hand, I will first ask the question whether the loss of either base J or the PJW/PP1 leads to the upregulation of the same set of genes. A positive result form this study would indicate that PJW/PP1 complex possibly gets recruited to base J and work downstream of base J for regulating transcription termination. Next, I will study whether knockdown of base J or the PJW/PP1 complex preferentially upregulates the marker genes in a specific T. brucei life stage. 
  The RNA-seq reads from base J and PJW/PP1 knockdown will be available from Sabatini lab. The marker genes in different T. brucei cell life stage will be from this paper.  (Naguleswaran, A., Doiron, N., & Roditi, I. (2018). RNA-Seq analysis validates the use of culture-derived Trypanosoma brucei and provides new markers for mammalian and insect life-cycle stages. BMC genomics, 19(1), 227.)

